#labels G5
The !OpenGroove Database is a database used by, and developed for, !OpenGroove.

<wiki:toc/>

=Operations=
Operations that a single change can represent:

==Insert==
This is an addition of a single object to the system. Included with this will be the type of the object, the id of the object, the path of the object's parent, and any attributes included with the initial version of the object. 

If an object in the parent object with the specified id already exists, the insert operation does nothing.

If an object with the specified parent id does not exist, the insert operation does nothing.

===Inverse===
If the specified parent object did not exist, or there is already an object with the specified id in the specified parent, the inverse is empty.

Otherwise, the inverse is a delete of the object.

==Delete==
This is the removal of a single object from the system. If the object has any children, those children will be recursively removed as well.

Removal is performed based on the object's path. If an object with the specified path does not exist, the delete operation does nothing. 

Note that the root object (whose path is the empty string) cannot be deleted. A delete operation on the root object does nothing.

===Inverse===
If the object in question didn't exist, the inverse is empty.

Otherwise, the inverse is an insert of the object, followed by a sequential recursive insert of the object's children, grandchildren, and so on.

==Set==
This is the setting of a single attribute on an object to have a certain value. Objects are referenced by path, and attributes are referenced by name.

If the attribute does not already exist on the object, it is created. If the attribute already exists, it is set to the specified value.

If there is no such object with the specified path, this operation does nothing.

===Inverse===
If the attribute did not exist beforehand, the inverse is an unset of the attribute.

Otherwise, the inverse is an update of the attribute to the value it had before.

==Update==
This is the updating of a single attribute on an object. This is eqivalent to the *set* operation, but if the specified attribute does not already exist on the object, it will not be created, effectively meaning that the operation does nothing if the attribute does not already exist.

===Inverse===
If the attribute did not exist beforehand, the inverse is empty.

Otherwise, the inverse is an update to the value that the attribute had before.

==Unset==
This is the deleting of a single attribute from an object. Objects are referenced by path, and attributes are referenced by name.

If an object with the specified path does not exist, this operation does nothing.

If the specified object does not have any attribute with the specified name, this operation does nothing.

===Inverse===
If the specified attribute did not exist beforehand, the inverse is empty.

Otherwise, the inverse is a set of the attribute to the value it had before.

=File Format=
The OpenGroove DB maintains a concept of two different storage locations: the version history and the datastore. The version history stores all of the changes that have occurred since the database was created, and the datastore stores what the database's current version looks like at present.  

==Version History==

==Datastore==
Currently, the datastore is backed by an SQLite database. In the future, it will use its own custom binary format, as the way it stores data in the SQLite database is somewhat inefficient.

The following tables are present in the datastore:

===objects===
This table stores a list of all objects being managed by the system. The root object is not present in this table.

Columns:
 * *id (text):* This is the id of this object. An object's id will not change once it is created.
 * *path (text):* This is the path of this object. An object's path is the object's parent's path followed by a forward slash followed by the object's id. The root object's id is the empty string, so objects under the root object have a path starting with "/".
 * *parent (text):* This is the path of this object's parent. The root object's path is the empty string.
 * *type (text):* This is the type of the object.

===attributes===
This table stores a list of all of the attributes on a particular object.
 * *path (text):* This is the path of the object that the attribute is present on.
 * *name (text):* This is the name of the attribute.
 * *value (any):* This is the value of the property.


















